Come on, you blithering idiot.
There's only 26 letters
in the damned alphabet.
All you've got to do is put them
in the right bloody order.
Write something.
Anything.
Right.
Music.
Charles!
Think!
Darling!
Charles, they can hear you in Timbuktu!
Much obliged.
If you insist on living
like a nocturnal animal,
at least be civil enough
to hide your tracks.
- Morning, Edith-
- Good morning, ma'am.
He's finally gone through with it.
Yes. Scandalous, isn't it?
On the contrary-I think giving up
the throne for love is awfully romantic.
I'll have a grilled grapefruit
and a strong coffee, please.
Mr. Condomine's asked for his eggs
to be brought over to his study again.
Given his mood, I hope
they're being served sunny side up.
Here we go.
Two soft-boiled eggs
for William Shakespeare.
What does Her Majesty want this morning?
- She's sticking to the Hollywood diet.
- Hollywood diet!
It'll take a lot more
than an exotic fruit
to turn her into Greta Garbo.
Don't dilly-dally in the garden, Edith.
He'll only send it back
if the toast is cold-
I'm not a bad man.
I mean, yes, I like to flirt a bit.
And the occasional flutter.
Excuse me, sir. Your breakfast.
Edith.
Yes, sir?
Would you remind Edna
that the word "toast"
is derived from the Latin "tostare",
meaning to scorch or to roast.
Whereas this...
is a cold, hard piece of bread.
Apologies, sir.
Do you need anything else?
Divine intervention.
It's wonderfully patriotic, Harold.
You've really excelled yourself.
And I'm certain the judges will agree.
How was it so easy for you,
my Manhattan muse?
Charles, you really should be praying
to Cadmus and not decapitating him.
I'm sorry!
You've been commissioned to write
a 90-page screenplay,
not War and Peace.
I'm at my wits' end.
I don't understand
how it could be so problematic
to adapt a story you've already written.
I'm sorry, Charles. I just don't know
how long I can go on like this
With you stuck in an imaginary world
and me alone in the real one.
I miss you.
I miss us.
So do I.
Look at that.
I just found it amongst some papers.
Sweet of you
to try and spare my feelings.
- And a little naive.
- Why?
Because you imagine
I mind you thinking of Elvira.
Well, don't you?
No, I'm not in the least bit
jealous of her-
I just wonder, if I died,
whether you'd continue
to look at photographs of me.
Darling.
You're not the dying type.
He's simply incorrigible, Violet.
I found him mooning
over pictures of Elvira yesterday.
Elvira?
He's been shirking work
and pining for the ex-wife.
Game, set and match.
There's really nothing
to feel insecure about.
Elvira may have been very attractive,
but the poor woman's gone.
As has the spark in our relationship.
Charles is a man.
You can't expect him to juggle
more than one thing at a time.
My advice,
leave him to worry about the words,
and find someone else
to shake your sheets-
Come on. Don't be a prude.
One must be practical
for a marriage to run the course.
Do you remember what you learnt
in our last lesson, Mrs. Bradman?
Strong, firm grip. How could I forget?
So, what seems to be the trouble,
old chap?
Things don't seem to be flowing
as they used to.
Name me a wordsmith
who hasn't wrestled
with a bout of writer's block
once in a while, hey?
The truth is, it's not just the words
that have dried up-
Big Ben's stopped chiming.
Mr. Peasebody's got stage fright.
You poor fellow.
It's like playing billiards with a rope.
Try a couple of these-
Should put some fuel back in your tank.
- What are they?
- Benzedrine sulphate.
Amphetamine.
Enhances cheerfulness.
Alertness.
And as Violet will testify,
it does wonders for your libido.
Sounds too good to be true.
Is it habit-forming?
Not at all. Been using them for years.
Slow down!
Charles, you'll give us both a coronary!
I've never felt more alive!
Why? What's happened?
I decided to take your advice
and look on the positives.
Surely it's better to be up than down?
I don't want you to exhaust yourself
before the medium show
at the theatre tonight.
Nobody in their right mind would waste
a perfectly pleasant evening
pretending to be fascinated by someone
holding a one-way conversation-
Ladies and gentlemen,
take your seats.
This evening's performance
will commence in two minutes.
Isn't that your cook? And your maid.
Yes, so it is. Poor Edith. She's
been very taken with this sort of thing
since she lost her brother,
fighting the Fascists in Spain.
Primitive superstition
can be very persuasive,
especially
with the emotionally susceptible.
Ladies and gentlemen,
welcome to an evening
that will change your perceptions
of the world we inhabit-
That will answer irrefutably
the question that has confounded mankind
since the dawn of time-
Is there life after death?
No.
There she is.
Mesdames et messieurs,
bonsoir.
From the Great Pyramid of Cholula
in the west
to Mount Taishan in the east.
From Whanganui-a-Tara in the south
to Uppsala in the north,
I have traveled the globe,
communing with gurus,
swamis and shamans.
These wise sages have guided me
to a deeper dimension,
where finally I experienced an epiphany
and broke through to the other side.
I am certain that everyone here
has sensed the spirits
of their departed loved ones,
and I am certain we all wish
we could communicate with them again,
to say the things we never got to say.
- I've got it!
- Shh!
- Tonight...
- Sorry-
I will use a precious mystical gift
to make that possible.
Ooh! Bugger!
Madame Arcati.
- It's a conjuring trick.
- How dare you?
Here, I told you, she's a fraud.
That's an outrageous accusation!
I merely lost contact.
Charles was right.
It was all a put-up job.
Where'd he go?
Please, please.
Madame Arcati has just been through
a very traumatic experience-
Please just...
Please, I would ask you to respect
her privacy at this difficult time!
My giddy aunt!
I've told you, Mandeep,
I don't want to see a living soul-
My name is Charles Condomine.
I'm an award-winning writer.
And especially not the gutter press.
No, I'm not a reporter.
I write crime novels and screenplays.
Well, I can't abide fiction or fantasy.
Get out!
Madame Arcati?
I'm not here to question your integrity.
Faking an exotic accent
doesn't mean your gift isn't real.
I fully understand that, like me,
you occasionally have to employ
a certain artistic license
to entertain the masses.
They expect me to deliver a spectacle,
a transcendental miracle
night after night-
Of course.
There's no need to justify yourself.
I'm a believer.
I'm simply here to invite you
to conduct a private seance at my home.
Well, I'm not a traveling banjo player,
Mr. Condomine. I don't do requests.
Well, there might be
some influential guests attending.
Could be the perfect opportunity
to fend off any bad publicity
from tonight's unfortunate events.
When were you wishing this
to take place?
Well, as soon as possible.
Then I suggest this Thursday,
Midsummer Night.
The solstice.
The sacred turning point of the seasons.
Perfect.
I told her how profoundly interested
I was in anything to do with the occult
and she blossomed like a rose.
Hosting an evening
with a professional charlatan
- sounds like a scream.
- Doesn't it?
But will it get you closer
to finishing your screenplay?
I need the old girl to show me
tricks of the trade.
That's what'll make my new hero unique.
What's so unique about him?
- He's dead.
- Dead?
As a doornail. He's the victim
of a vicious unsolved murder
and communicates with the living
through a medium
who helps bring people back
from beyond the grave.
Maybe she could resurrect your career
at the same time.
Daddy's on the warpath.
He's threatened to find another writer
if you don't deliver soon.
Is anybody there?
One rap for yes, two raps for no.
- Is that you, Maia?
- Who's Maia?
My spirit guide.
She was Tutankhamun's wet-nurse.
I do hope she's not still lactating.
I would ask you not to be flippant,
Dr-Bradman-
She may be in Shambhala,
but the woman still has feelings.
Please forgive me, Madame Arcati.
I didn't mean to cause offence-
Now we're getting somewhere.
Is it me you wish to speak to?
Is it Dr. Bradman? Or perhaps
one of his less-fortunate patients?
Mrs. Bradman?
Mrs. Condomine?
Behave yourself, Maia.
Mr. Condomine?
It appears there's someone who wishes
to speak to you, Mr-Condomine-
Do you know anyone who has recently
passed over to the other side?
Only my old literary agent,
but it's unlikely he'd make contact.
He owed me a fortune in royalties.
Are you Mr. Condomine's literary agent?
No. I'm afraid we've drawn a blank.
Is there anyone on the other side
you think of often?
No. Well, there's nothing for it.
I shall have to go into a trance.
This is the moment I hate.
Are you nervous or...?
When I was a child, I used to be sick.
Let's see. What have we here?
Brahms. No, that's too dark
and depressing.
Rachmaninov? No, too florid.
No, this is better. Always.
Does it have to be that song?
Well, Maia likes a tune
she can hum along to.
♪ Always
♪ I'll be loving you always
♪ With a love that's true
♪ Always
♪ When the things you've planned
♪ Need a helping hand
♪ I will understand
♪ Always...
No!
Crikey!
- What the devil's going on?
- Must be a power cut.
Madame Arcati?
Madame Arcati, can you hear me?
- Is she breathing?
- She's having some sort of fit.
Please do something, Dr. Bradman.
- Thank goodness.
- What happened?
Apart from French windows
blowing open, nothing supernatural.
Well, something substantial took place.
- I can feel it in my base chakra.
- Probably trapped wind.
No poltergeists at any rate.
Erm, any apparitions?
Er, not that we saw.
- What about ectoplasm?
- I'm not quite sure what that is.
A supernatural viscous substance
that exudes from the body of one
in a spiritualistic trance
and forms the material
for the manifestation of spirits.
No, I definitely would have
remembered that.
I suppose should get going
before the storm rolls in.
Would you care for refreshments
before you return to your hotel?
No, thank you, Mrs. Condomine.
I like to travel light.
Congratulations, Madame Arcati.
It was a thrilling evening.
I'm well aware of the irony
in your voice, Dr. Bradman.
May I be so bold as to remind you
that modern medicine
is a recent phenomena
and that physicians have found value
in scientifically inexplicable practices
since the beginning of civilization.
Quite so.
Well, good night, everyone.
I'm sorry so little eventuated. Probably
something to do with the cosmic flux.
Thank you so much for agreeing
to do this, Madame Arcati.
It's been an education
on so many levels.
Merci, Monsieur Condomine.
Et au revoir.
Shh! She might hear us.
I can't. Really, I can't.
I can't quite put my finger on it,
Donald.
I've never experienced anything like it
in my life.
It genuinely felt as if...
something tremendous had happened.
Well.
Maybe next time.
Good night, my love.
Did you get
everything you need for your screenplay?
Everything and more.
Not thinking of turning in
for the night?
What?
Wouldn't it be prudent to get down
the ideas whilst they're still fresh?
Yes, no. Absolutely.
I shall, er, fix myself a drink
and dig in.
Carpe diem, darling.
Carpe diem.
Jesus Christ!
Charles.
What on earth have you done?
The room looks like a giant peach melba!
And where's my Italian chandelier gone?
What?
God!
Hello?
Please tell me you haven't ruined
the rest of the house.
No.
My Moroccan mosaics!
Charles!
One weekend away
and the whole place has had
the life and soul sucked out of it.
This can't be happening.
I must be hallucinating.
Well, judging from the decor,
I would say that's the understatement
of the century.
I should've known
this wasn't down to you.
Who is she?
It's not what you think.
Please, do not humiliate
either one of us any further.
If you've got something to tell me,
be a man and spit it out!
Elvira...
- You're dead.
- How dare you?
The last thing I remember is competing
in the South Downs Point-to-Point.
That's right,
and the conditions were treacherous.
As with most things,
you refused to listen to reason.
Well, I couldn't miss
the most prestigious meet of the season.
You paid the ultimate price
for your folly
and fell at the final fence,
instantly breaking your neck.
The whole episode was very distressing
for everyone involved.
Well, presumably not as distressing
as it was for me.
They did rename the jump in your honor.
How thoughtful.
Well, I don't understand.
If I'm dead, then how and why am I here?
I have absolutely no idea.
- Maybe you're a ghost.
- What?
No!
- Please, don't get hysterical.
- Hysterical?
Concerned, more like.
Procrastination is the thief of time,
Charles, and yours is running out.
- Who's she?
- My wife, Ruth.
Yes? Are you all right?
- I'm your wife.
- Not anymore.
Why? What's the matter?
I'm not speaking to you.
I'm talking to Elvira.
Elvira?
Surely you can see her.
She's standing right next to you.
What are you playing at? Elvira's dead.
Why does everyone
have to keep saying that?
Elvira, darling, this is Ruth.
Ruth, darling, this is Elvira.
Are you drunk?
Ruth, Elvira is here with us
in the room.
Madame Arcati must have summoned
her up during the seance.
Madame Arcati's a fraud.
You said so yourself.
I'm going to bed
and I suggest that you retire too.
Finally, some time to ourselves,
so we can get reacquainted.
That's a thoroughly immoral suggestion.
I wasn't for a moment insinuating
we share a bed.
- No...
- I've come to terms
with your recent inability
to perform in that department.
I can't imagine you ever did
with that sourpuss.
Be quiet!
You're behaving like a guttersnipe!
It is your behavior, Charles,
that is unpardonable! Good night.
Hooray.
What a frightful woman. I can only
assume it was a marriage of convenience.
I've gone mad. That's what it is.
Stark raving mad.
It'll ruin your life if you allow it
to get hold of you.
Once and for all, Ruth, last night
had nothing to do with alcohol.
I wasn't in the least drunk. Something
very peculiar happened to me.
A one-off psychic delusion,
likely brought on by work pressure.
A deadline doesn't explain why,
when I suggested you return to bed,
you said with a disgusting leer
that it was an immoral suggestion.
I thought I was talking to Elvira.
If you were, it conjures up a fragrant
picture of your first marriage.
My first marriage
was perfectly charming.
It's in the worst taste
for you to sneer at it.
I'm not nearly so interested in
your first marriage as you think I am.
It's your second marriage
that's absorbing me at the moment.
It's headed for the rocks!
Well, it's 155 over 99.
It is quite high.
I'm not surprised, given
the intensity of the hallucination.
I genuinely believed Elvira
was in the room, talking to me.
She was as real as you or I.
Probably best you stop taking
the tablets, old chap.
Darling.
I hate to see you so upset.
Please accept my heartfelt apology
for anything untoward I might have said
last night... or this morning.
Apology accepted.
Let's never mention it again.
How are you feeling?
Yeah, I believe Dr. Bradman
might have solved the riddle.
Well, thank goodness.
Now, let's go and see your father.
I want to check he likes my new idea
before committing it to the page.
I do not want to be late.
Charles?
So, you see, Henry,
it's only through the medium
that the killer
can be brought to justice
based on new evidence
that he gathers from beyond the grave.
I like the premise, but not enough to
wait another six months to see a script.
Charles will deliver in a few weeks,
Daddy. You have my word.
And mine.
Cut!
Right, come on.
Let's watch the next scene.
I think Hitch will be
the perfect director for our film.
Just don't get under his feet.
Come on, darling.
Googie, how lovely to see you.
- Charles Condomine.
- I'm a big fan of your books.
When can we expect Detective Flowers
to crack his next case?
Charles has actually made the leap
into screenwriting with Daddy's help.
How exciting! I'd die to play one
of your strong-willed female characters.
Where do you draw your inspiration from?
- Where do you think?
- How romantic, to marry your muse.
Not so romantic to replace her.
Why don't you tell her the truth?
- That you're an astral bigamist.
- Be quiet. Stop behaving like a harlot.
I beg your pardon?
Admit it, Charles. All of your female
characters are based on me.
You always were vain and self-obsessed.
How dare you speak
to my leading lady like that?
No, no, no, no.
Get a grip, Charles.
What on earth is going on?
Elvira is here.
I can see her. She's right there.
I insist you go home immediately
and lie down.
I have no desire to go to bed
in the afternoon.
My, how things have changed.
I remember a time when we could barely
drag ourselves out of our double divan.
Stop being indecent.
Get out of my sight.
How dare you speak
to my daughter like that?
- I wasn't speaking to her.
- Get off my set.
- You're in trouble.
- Don't be so infantile.
I'll give you infantile!
Ooh!
Does it hurt?
- Only if I breathe.
- Let me see it, darling.
- What about now?
- God!
I suggest you take yourself
to your study.
The only way my father will forgive you
is if you deliver
an Oscar-worthy script.
How am I supposed to write
in this state?
You'd better try. Either start typing
and prove you're not barking mad,
or I'll be forced to call Dr. Bradman
and have you referred
to a nerve specialist.
Ruth, I'm not in the least neurotic
and never have been.
Well, a psychoanalyst, then.
I refuse to endure months
of expensive humiliation,
only to be told that at the age of four,
I was in love with my rocking horse.
Don't take that flippant tone with me.
- I'm not the one who's seeing things.
- You do believe me then.
Of course I don't. There's no such thing
as ghosts or ghouls.
I call upon Donald Keeling,
second lieutenant in the 92nd Regiment
of Gordon Highlanders,
who died on February 27th, 1881,
at the Battle of Majuba Hill.
Come forth
and make yourself known to me...
Cecily, your ever-devoted wife.
Donald!
Is that you?
It's housekeeping.
Do you need fresh towels?
What are you doing here?
Despite removing every trace of me,
this is still my home.
Besides, I have no idea how to get back,
even if I wanted to.
Are you saying
you're staying indefinitely?
Why? Would you hate it so much if I did?
Honestly, Charles,
I really am a little hurt.
You're the only one
who could have called me back.
I most emphatically
did not send for you, Elvira.
Ruth and I are about to celebrate
our fifth wedding anniversary together.
Five? What is that, leather?
- Wood.
- Watch out for the splinters.
Mrs. Condomine!
I'll call Dr. Bradman, see if
he'll accompany us to the sanatorium.
Ruth, please listen to me.
I haven't gone mad.
The ghost of my first wife. Elvira,
has crossed over from the other side
- and is in the room with us right now.
- Yes, dear.
I know, I see her perfectly well,
along with the zebras and chimpanzees
hiding under the piano.
Ruth, I have always looked upon you
as a woman of perception
and understanding.
I am,
but if you say you're not drinking,
there must be something
pressing on your brain.
Elvira, do something to reveal
that you really are here. Please!
She's going to have me committed.
Do you remember
when we first heard our song, Charles?
♪ I'll be loving you
♪ Always, ooh
See? What did I tell you?
It's a cruel trick, using some sort of
autosuggestion or hypnotism to scare me.
It isn't. I swear it isn't. Darling!
Darling! Elvira, do something else,
for God's sake.
Anything to oblige.
Look.
What?
Adios, interloper.
Oops.
I'm afraid we need the room back.
I've told you, I'll be packed
and ready to go within an hour.
Thank God I caught you.
You are my only hope.
Something terrible has taken place.
You heard strange noises in the night?
Boards creaking, doors slamming?
A subdued moaning in the passages?
Er, no, none of those.
But it appears that after the seance,
my husband's first wife, Elvira,
who died seven years ago,
is back among us.
At last!
A genuine materialization.
I knew something stupendous
had happened to me that night.
I felt it in my spinal cortex.
After all these years of...
of spiritual devotion,
I've finally been rewarded.
I appreciate the pride
in your achievement,
but I would like to point out,
it's making my position
in my home untenable,
and I hold you entirely responsible.
Forgive me, Mrs. Condomine.
I'm being abominably selfish.
Just to let me get this clear
in my mind,
you yourself have not seen
this manifestation?
No, but Charles claims
he can see and talk to her.
Well, if the emotional connection
is strong, that is sometimes possible.
What?
It can sometimes develop
into a level ten,
something I've never even dared
dream of.
Can he, by any chance, touch her?
I sincerely hope not.
Why? Can that happen?
Well, if the returning spirit
feels welcome,
it can gradually
become physically substantial.
Thank you, Mrs. Bradman.
Please do let me know
if you hear from her.
She's not there either.
I remember when you couldn't wait
to spend an afternoon alone with me.
Please refrain from playing with
my affections. I feel strange enough.
- So, you do still find me attractive?
- Elvira, please.
This is inappropriate.
Look into my eyes...
and tell me you don't love me anymore.
I shall always love the memory of you.
Memories are about the past, Charles,
but I'm here, and this is the present.
Why don't we take the boat out
like we used to and get some air?
I can't, I'm on a deadline.
What are you writing, checks?
I'll have you know,
I've been commissioned to adapt
my first novel for the screen.
Your first novel?
Nearly wore my fingers to the bone
committing this story to the page.
Let's face it, darling,
it's not a coincidence that you haven't
published a word since my demise.
I won't deny
you did have a flair for plot.
And character.
And?
- And dialogue.
- Right.
The biggest problem you have
is the twist into the third act.
It isn't dramatic enough, which is why
you don't have a satisfying climax.
Tell me something I don't know.
Wouldn't it be smarter
to flip the whole thing on its head
and reveal the husband as the killer?
That's good.
Or what would be more interesting
is if it's the wife who set him up.
Why would the wife send her husband
to the gallows?
It's obvious, darling. Susan Rutherford
becomes the prime suspect
when her alibi fails to materialize.
We naturally assume
that she's trying to protect
the reputation of the foreign secretary
whose aspirations
of becoming the prime minister
would be severely compromised if it was
revealed that he was having an affair.
But, in reality, nothing could be
further from the truth,
which is what we learn
from the victim himself.
And it's only through the medium
that they can work it out.
Work what out?
That she's pregnant
with the dead foreign secretary's child.
That's good.
Even I didn't see that one coming.
Of course you didn't, darling.
You're just the writer.
I'm afraid, Mrs. Condomine,
that the time has come
for me to admit quite frankly
I haven't the foggiest idea
how to send her back.
I have my own personal reasons
for wishing to communicate
with the departed,
but I never for a moment
considered the possibility
of having to send someone back.
Well, I suggest that you find a way.
I refuse to share my husband
with anyone,
especially his dead ex-wife.
If I had thought for a moment
that your husband wished to get in touch
with the spirit of his dead ex-wife,
I would have of course
consulted you first.
After all, noblesse oblige.
He had no intention of getting
in touch with her, I can assure you.
The whole thing was planned in order for
him to get material for his new project.
Am I to understand I was invited
in a spirit of mockery?
He merely wanted to make some notes
of the tricks of the trade.
Tricks of the trade?
I've never been so insulted in my life.
I'm sorry if that all came out wrong.
I'm rather overwrought
with the whole affair.
Please, I implore you to help us.
I will go to the Spiritual Alliance
on my way back to Sussex
and ask them for guidance.
Sussex? You can't abandon us
in our hour of need.
Well, due to my recent circumstances,
I can no longer afford to stay here,
but you can contact me.
I can cover your hotel bill
and any expenses
till this terrifying ordeal
has been resolved.
"Susan Rutherford
leans over the foreign secretary."
Don't stop.
"'The Soviet Union can wait, '
says the foreign secretary.
He turns and looks at Susan longingly.
'This can't..."'
"he whispers urgently.
And then..."
"he starts to slowly...
unbutton her silk blouse,
as they start to passionately kiss."
OK, that takes us
up to the first-act turn.
You can't just stop mid-flow!
I'm tired. And I'm thirsty.
And I want to go into town
and drink negronis like we used to.
But it's getting late.
You really have got a little too
comfortable in your slippers, Charles.
What do you want, Elvira?
Want?
I don't know what you mean.
I remember whenever
you got overwhelmingly demure,
it usually meant
that you wanted something.
It's horrid of you to be so suspicious.
All I want is to be alone with you.
I can't deny, I do feel rather peculiar
seeing you again.
I've missed you more than life itself.
I've missed you too.
My American dream.
I was utterly heartbroken
after the accident.
The truth is, I don't believe
I ever really got over losing you.
Do you love Ruth?
Of course I do.
As much as you loved me?
Don't be silly.
It's entirely different.
I'm so glad.
Nothing could've ever been
quite the same, could it?
Let's go to Soho.
Swap those slippers
for some dancing shoes.
Slow down!
- I think I'm going to be sick!
- Charles!
I love being back
behind the wheel of a car!
I can't say the feeling's mutual.
Charles? Where on earth have you been?
I've been worried sick.
It's too bad it's not terminal.
I wanted to clear my head,
so I took a long drive.
In the passenger seat?
Let's not quarrel
when we should be celebrating.
I finished the first act
of my screenplay, and it's rather good.
My screenplay, more like.
How did you manage that in a day?
- Elvira helped me.
- Do you mean to tell me
that not only has she bullied her way
back over the threshold,
she's trying to work with you now
as well?
What do you mean, trying?
I've written 15 books in your name.
Elvira, this is neither the time
nor the place.
This is intolerable.
- Elvira, now, you listen to me.
- Darling...
- I... Yes?
- She's over there.
Right.
Now, listen here, Elvira,
I've been to see Madame Arcati,
and she's going to send you back
to wherever it is
she regrettably dragged you from.
Charles? Charles?
Don't.
Darling, please don't be upset.
Upset? You've just spent the night
with your ex-wife.
How do you expect me to feel?
Ecstatic.
Our dream of going to Hollywood
is finally within our grasp.
As soon as I deliver the screenplay,
we'll be crossing the Atlantic quicker
than you can say Sunset Boulevard.
Think of the glitz, the glamour,
the good times we're going to share.
You won't be reading
about other people's lives anymore.
They'll be reading about ours.
And you can't do it without her?
Of course I can. It will just be
a lot quicker this way.
There's really no need
for you to be jealous.
You're the one I love.
Forgive me that I don't tell you enough.
Now that the words are flowing,
I feel unblocked in other areas too.
Promise me you can't touch her.
Darling... she's a ghost.
And, besides, the only woman
I want to touch is you.
Listen here, lady.
You may have summoned me
into this world,
but there's no way I'm going to let you
send me back again.
I'm here to stay. Is that clear?
How dare you ignore me,
you meddling old crone?
Either you leave me in peace
to live my life,
or I'll haunt you until the day you die.
The tower. Symbol of chaos,
destruction and devastation.
Wakey-wakey.
Rise and shine.
What was I, Charles?
The warm-up act?
If I was you, I'd keep it there.
Good afternoon, ma'am.
I'm going to have to correct you, Edith.
It's not a good afternoon,
it's a glorious one.
- Should I prepare lunch?
- Yes, please. You read my mind.
I'm absolutely famished.
I'll have a cheese and pickle platter,
with extra pickle.
Yes, ma'am.
- What happened to your leg?
- I slipped down the staircase.
You really must refrain
from doing everything at the double.
You're not in the navy, you know.
I wasn't hurrying, ma'am. There was axle
grease smeared all over the top step.
Yes, her agent loves the pitch.
Thinks it would be
a perfect vehicle for her.
- Seriously? Greta Garbo?
- Yes.
Mata Hari speaking my words
would be a dream come true.
- Charles, are you still on track?
- Yes, absolutely still on track.
I'll send the next ream of pages over
as soon as I reach the second-act turn.
- Don't let me down.
- Thank you, Henry.
And I appreciate
your continued patience and belief.
- Splendid.
- Goodbye.
- Elvira, what are you doing?
- "Greta Garbo speaking my words"?
Darling, what am I supposed to say?
That I've got a ghost writer?
Stop it. Elvira,
that's one of our wedding gifts.
Not ours, Charles. Hers!
You care more about breaking china
than you do about breaking my heart.
Elvira, I was unwaveringly loyal
and faithful to you
in all our years of marriage.
What was I supposed to do
after you died?
Become a recluse and wear a black
armband for the rest of my life?
- Ma'am, the garden judges are here.
- Thank you, Edith.
We've been sabotaged.
That is an outrageous suggestion.
As the national director
of the Spiritual Alliance,
my job is to protect the reputation
of genuine psychic practitioners,
not undermine them.
And I vow, along with my friend,
Harry Houdini,
to investigate and expose
every fraudulent spiritualist
operating in this country.
Come in.
- Madame Arcati here to see you.
- Thank you for your time.
Yes. Well, no, thank you.
Always a pleasure to talk to the press.
Goodbye.
You've got a cheek, showing your face
while you're suspended.
I'm sorry to turn up unannounced,
but I urgently need your guidance.
I have pulled off
a level-ten manifestation.
And was this before or after
you conned 800 people
into paying to see you levitate?
No, really, you must believe me, Harry.
And it is possible this presence
has a physical form.
- Margot, where are the scissors?
- Drawer.
So, you're telling me
that the first level-ten manifestation
reported in over three centuries
was the result of an ordinary
common-or-garden seance?
Yes, that is correct.
- What did you use as a guide?
- Erm, this.
The Art of the Seance.
- Can you help me?
- Yes, Madame Arcati, I think I can.
Do you have your membership card?
Membership card? Er...
Yes.
I'll start by terminating
your membership with immediate effect.
This is no place
for fantasists or frauds.
Margot.
Madame Arcati is leaving now.
Meet me in Temple Square in an hour.
Chapter four, page nine,
paragraph six.
A banishing spell.
Margot. Thank you.
We don't have long.
I need to replace it in the safe
- before Mr. Price returns from lunch.
- It's recorded in ancient Druidic text.
I'm a little rusty but I'll do my best.
Wait.
"Take Ceridwen's brew of devil's claw."
Devil's claw.
- "Poisoned root of aconite."
- Yes.
"Elixir of vervain flowers."
Yes, of course.
That's the enchanter's plant.
"The sacrificial offering
is at its strongest with a waning moon."
A waning moon.
"Sprinkle black salt on a stone altar."
Black salt.
"Then lay the freshly torn bladder
of a carnivore..."
The bla... Bladder?
No.
"Freshly torn bladderwort..."
"of the carnivorous
aquatic Utricularia plant family."
Thank heavens.
I thought I was going
to have to get my hands dirty.
Au revoir, Madame Arcati.
Good luck.
Will you excuse me?
What about Clark Gable? He'd make
a dashing Detective Frank Flowers.
Good actor, terrible breath.
Very tricky for the leading ladies.
- I was thinking Cary Grant.
- Now we're talking.
I look forward to making
his acquaintance at the premier.
Well, I'm afraid you're getting ahead
of yourself there, Mrs. Bradman.
Even I can't make a film
without a script.
It's rather like trying
to perform surgery without a patient.
The typewriter can be
a cruel and demanding mistress.
Well, let's hope that's the only affair
Charles is having.
Yes.
Hello, Daddy.
Time for a speech.
Ladies and gentlemen.
A-ha! As a writer,
people are always expecting me
to come up with lots of words.
Well, today,
I'm sure you'll all be relieved to hear
that I'm going to keep things
short and sweet, just like my wife.
If I were to create a character
as beautiful, as poised,
as perfect as Ruth,
my fans would accuse me
of straying into fantasy.
Thankfully we are all here
today to celebrate the fact
that Ruth is my reality
and has been for five fabulous years.
So, let us be upstanding upstandingly,
and raise our glasses to true love.
- Yeah.
- True love!
- True love.
Never dies.
- Lord Almighty!
- What on earth are you doing?
Cooling off. All that dancing
got me hot and sticky.
Everybody's looking!
I didn't know it was going to be
one of those parties.
You're as wet as an otter's pocket.
- What happened to your dress?
- What happened to yours, Daddy?
Everybody!
Lovely, darling. I'm not sure the fish
are enjoying this.
Why don't you come upstairs
and have a little lie-down?
Only if you're going to join me.
Make love to me
like it was the first time.
Whee! Does Mr. Peasebody
want to come out and play?
Well, I'm not surprised she doesn't like
to do it with the lights on.
- Don't be so vulgar, Elvira.
- She's in here?
Now, you listen to me,
you low-rent hussy.
This is my party, my bedroom,
my house and Charles is my husband!
What did she say?
She apologized unreservedly
and has taken herself back downstairs.
You should've been an actor, Charles.
You really are rather good.
Darling.
I'm sorry, Charles. I'm just...
I'm not in the mood anymore.
I am.
Morning, darling.
You look shattered.
Yes, had a bit of a restless night.
Yes. Yes, I thought
you were thrashing around a bit.
I had Edna prepare Norfolk kippers,
your favorite.
That's very sweet.
I could do with something hearty.
I fear I rather overdid it
on the bubbles yesterday.
Party went by in a bit of a blur.
What are you stuck on?
Twenty-two down,
Greek god of retribution.
Seven letters, third letter M,
seventh letter S.
Nemesis.
- What on earth has happened?
- She said the place is cursed.
It's not safe!
It's not safe at all!
Edna? You can't leave us!
You can keep your job!
No, I'm getting out of here. Go away!
I'm having nothing to do with you.
Go away!
You can stick your bleedin' job
up your bum!
There you are.
Now, to work.
Yes.
Where are you?
Detective,
I don't see how you can blame a girl
for falling in love with the right guy
for the wrong reasons.
What about
that poor sap of a husband of yours?
Guys like him are a dime a dozen.
What was he?
The right guy in the wrong place
at the wrong time?
Detective,
just being close to you,
I feel as if I am completely naked.
How do you always manage
to see right through me?
I see things just the way they are.
The rest of the world needs bifocals.
I'm not sure about that last line.
It feels too florid.
It needs something simple
and to the point like...
That's my job, sweetie. I just do it.
Whatever you prefer.
It's your name on the script.
And, "Fade to black."
Ooh!
Well, dare I say it? I think the film's
going to be even better than the book.
We've finished ahead of the deadline.
Just wait till I tell Ruth.
Let's not tell her just yet.
For heaven's sake!
Ooh! Fiddlesticks!
- Damn and blast!
- Are you all right, darling?
Knowing you work
your fingers to the bone
makes it easier for me
to endure a few blisters and burns.
Out of suffering have emerged
the strongest souls, my dear.
I've nothing to serve for lunch.
Please don't worry about it.
I'm not in the least hungry.
Dare I ask how it's going over there?
- The finishing line is almost in sight.
- Thank goodness.
I don't like you alone with her
one iota,
but if it means you're going to be able
to deliver the damned script,
then I can just about tolerate it.
You and I do make a good team, darling.
I'd like us to move our beds
back together.
Permanently.
I think if we're going to be separated
during the days,
the least we can do is spend our nights
together as man and wife.
Yes, I should like nothing more.
I'm going to take a walk,
try to clear my head.
Remember when we used to play
hide-and-seek along here,
and your reward when you found me?
Look, isn't he handsome?
He's magnificent.
He can sense me.
How wonderful not to be frightened
of the unknown.
You're not frightened, are you, Charles?
- Of what?
- Falling back in love.
How is that possible when we're existing
on two different planes?
- I'm alive and you're...
- Don't... Don't say it.
I'm so sorry, Elvira.
There's no easy way to say this.
But I'm struggling to see
a future in us.
You know, Charles, when you give someone
an eternity ring,
it's supposed to be a love
that lasts forever.
Charles?
Charles, watch out!
Damn!
She's dangerous, Charles.
Edna was almost scalped.
Look what happened to Edith.
What are you suggesting?
It's blindingly obvious
that Elvira came here
for one purpose and one purpose only.
She came here
to have you to herself forever.
How?
- By killing you off, of course.
- That's absurd.
Do you really think the cabinet
climbed up onto the roof
and jumped off of its own accord?
Elvira may be prone to temper tantrums,
but she still loves me.
She'd never wish me any harm.
If you were dead,
it would be her final triumph over me.
She'd have you all to herself
on her beastly astral plane
and I'd be left high and dry.
She's probably planning
some sort of spiritual remarriage.
What are we going to do?
Yes, the guest's name is Madame Arcati.
Room 14.
One moment.
I'm sorry but she left yesterday.
- I see. Did she leave any messages?
- I'm afraid not.
Thank you.
She checked out yesterday.
There's nothing for it.
I shall have to get myself arrested,
spend the night locked up in the cells.
No, we just have to create
our own safe place for the night.
Right.
Now, gently does it.
Precious.
Herba veneris,
nature's divine protector.
What are you doing with that?
I've just removed all the heavy
and sharp objects for a reason.
I thought you could keep going
with your script
- while we're holed up in here.
- Erm...
I've already finished it.
I thought you said you were struggling.
On reflection, I think I was
overthinking the whole thing.
I'll give the manuscript a quick read
and drive it to the studio
in the morning.
Charles. What wonderful news.
Daddy's going to be over the moon.
- As am I.
- Thank you, darling.
Now we can both focus on banishing
Elvira into oblivion once and for all.
Not a moment too soon.
Two's company.
Three's a nightmare.
Nearly there.
Vervain and dill
hinder witches from their will.
Charles.
Charles!
Hello?
Mrs. Condomine, I have news.
Doors are opening
and change is in the air.
This is no time for riddles.
We've been urgently
trying to contact you.
Charles's life is in grave danger.
Elvira is trying to murder him.
I feared she might become
a malevolent spirit.
That's putting it mildly. Where are you?
In Sussex. I've gathered everything
together and now I'm ready.
- For what?
- Well, to send her back, of course.
Stay put, Madame Arcati.
I'll come and collect you.
The telephone woke me.
Apologies if I scared you.
Er, when Mr. Condomine wakes up,
tell him I've gone
to fetch Madame Arcati
and I shall be back before lunch.
Don't hurt me, I beg you!
- Are you all right in there?
- I've never stopped loving you.
I don't know what to say, sir.
You have a funny way
of showing it, Charles.
I was going to put your name
on the manuscript
before I delivered it, I promise.
That won't be necessary, sir.
I'm a woman. We're used to not getting
the credit we deserve.
No, I insist. I'll get changed
and leave straight away.
Mrs. Condomine left in the car
a while ago.
She said she'd be back by lunchtime.
Elvira, what have you done?
Whoops.
Mr. Condomine, I would just like to say
that I reproach myself bitterly.
You are not to blame, Madame Arcati.
The fault lies squarely on my shoulders.
It was my ambition and ego that
dragged us into this unbearable mess.
That's something I shall have
to live with for the rest of my life.
The last time I spoke with
Mrs. Condomine, your life was in danger.
I urge you to come and see me
at your earliest possible convenience.
Here is my card. I'll be waiting.
You're not going to stay
for refreshments?
No, please, don't think me rude,
but I...
I prefer to contemplate the passing
of a spirit in my own private way.
My sincerest condolences, Mr. Condomine.
Shouldn't that be "Congratulations"?
What the hell are you doing here?
Have you no shame?
It was an accident, Charles.
I was trying to kill you.
- How can you be so heartless?
- Death does that to you.
You know, you can always tell
how well regarded someone is
- by the attendance at their funeral.
- What's that supposed to mean?
Bit of a poor turnout today,
if you ask me.
I barely counted 40 people.
That does it.
Come here!
Just like old times, Charles!
With you chasing me
round the garden.
Today there's going to be
a different outcome.
- Will you excuse me?
- Of course.
I'm sorry for your loss, Mr. Mackintosh.
Ruth was a fine woman and a good friend.
I'm going to miss her deeply.
Thank you, Mrs. Bradman.
I know she was fond of you too.
I can't quite believe she's gone.
My mother always said that time
is a physician that heals every grief.
You never were much of an opponent
on the croquet lawn, Charles.
You repulse me.
I'm going to kill you!
Don't be an imbecile. I'm already dead.
You better fetch your medicinal bag
before someone else gets killed.
Edna was right. This place is cursed.
- I can't bear to see you ever again.
- The feeling's mutual, Charles.
With age and disappointment,
you've become a pompous ass.
Charles! Charles!
- Everything's going to be splendid.
- Not while she's here, it won't.
- Not while who's here?
- Elvira!
- Where am I?
- In the loony bin.
What?
There's no point in struggling, Charles.
The more you thrash around,
the longer they'll keep you in.
Why am I here?
You've been sectioned
under the Mental Treatment Act
and held under mandatory observation
for the next 28 days.
I hope you rot in hell.
It's not wise to be bad-tempered
with the only person who can help you.
I'd rather eat my tongue
than ask you for help!
Ooh. You might get to do that.
Dr. McEwan is planning on taking you
down the corridor in 15 minutes
for electric-shock treatment.
What?
No! No, come back. Wait.
There's usually a way around
these things.
What do you want from me?
I know you're never
going to forgive me, Charles,
and being stuck in purgatory with you
grieving over another woman
is a fate worse than death.
I couldn't agree more.
Which is why I want a divorce.
With pleasure.
And I know just the person
who can execute that.
Good.
Move over. There's no way
I'm putting my life in your hands again.
Don't flatter yourself.
When I think of what might've happened
if I'd succeeded in getting you
to the other side, it makes me shudder.
Nothing but bickering and squabbling
for eternity.
Drive.
Looking back on our married years,
I can see now, with horrid clarity,
they were nothing but a mockery.
You were feckless, irresponsible,
morally unstable.
I realized that
before we left Budleigh Salterton.
Nobody but a monumental bore
would've thought of going
to Budleigh Salterton for a honeymoon.
What's the matter
with Budleigh Salterton?
Seven hours a day on a damp golf course
and a three-piece orchestra
playing Merrie England.
I'm surprised you didn't complain
at the time.
I remember you being quite good at that.
I did complain,
but you wouldn't listen.
That's why I took a romantic stroll
on the moors with Captain Bracegirdle.
What a blind fool I was.
- Did he make love to you?
- Only very discreetly.
Mr. Condomine, I'm so relieved
you've arrived safely.
Follow me. Tonight the moon is full
and we must harness its power.
We're both ready to perform
the banishment ceremony immediately.
- She's here?
- Yes.
Are you sure she's amenable
to the process?
Yes.
With this magic smoke,
I invoke the spirit of moonfire.
Dancer of time,
mistress of endings and beginnings...
to return our sacred sister
to her rightful sphere.
- Still here?
- Yes.
To you, the spirit of earth.
To you, the element of air.
To you, the force of water.
To you, the power of fire
and the gift of enchanter's dew.
- She still here?
- Yes.
Yes!
Ghostly specter, ghoul and fiend,
never more be thou convened.
Wolf's bane and holy rite,
banish thee into the night.
Bladderwort, bladderwort!
Bladderwort.
Yes. Come.
Yes. And... bladderwort.
- Ruth!
- Ruth?
I'm so happy to see you again.
Blast! How could I
have been such a duffer?
Something must have gone
hideously wrong.
Yes, not for the first time.
- You hussy!
- Darling?
Save yourself the effort.
I'm already dead.
And more to the point, so are you.
- You popped your clogs last Tuesday.
- Don't be so insensitive.
Darling, are you in any pain?
Charles, what happened to me?
There was a car accident.
Which, I have to admit,
I had a hand in.
I'm sorry, Ruth.
I'm afraid "sorry" doesn't quite cut it.
Well, even so. In the spirit of complete
openness, I'd also like to apologize
for conducting an affair with Charles
right under your nose.
Technically, we are still married, so...
Stop it, Elvira.
- Ruth has been through quite enough.
- What are they saying, Mr. Condomine?
Not now, Madame Arcati.
Things are becoming quite strained.
I should have squeezed malum citrea
at the crucial point.
That's lemon juice.
The only reason
he was able to through that screenplay
in five days flat is because I wrote it.
- Yes...
- Charles, is that true?
Not exactly.
Charles didn't want to tell you
we'd finished
because he wanted to spend
more time alone with me.
Charles...
- Let's not fight, darling.
- Which darling are you referring to?
After everything I put up with,
how could you do that to me?
It's not that straightforward, darlings.
I mean, really, Charles,
you never loved Elvira or me.
The only person that you love
is yourself!
No...
Finally, something we do agree on.
If you wrote the script,
- did he write any of those books?
- No, not a word.
- He took all the glory?
- Won't you stay for the second act?
I think it's best I leave.
Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.
Try two of them.
Good luck with the lemons.
Where did he go?
- He can run.
- But he can't hide.
Ghostly specter, ghoul or fiend,
never more be thou convened.
Bladderwort, wolf's bane and holy rite,
banish thee into the night.
Donald?
All right, I'm gonna start
with this medium shot.
Then I'm gonna come in a little closer.
Let's have some passion!
All right, roll the camera.
- Quiet, please!
- Sound running!
Scene 84, take one.
And action.
Just being close to you, Frank,
I feel as if I'm completely naked.
How do you always manage
to see right through me?
That's my job, sweetie.
I just do it.
Cut!
Reset.
I'm not feeling the last line.
Boy Wonder, what else you got?
Er... Well, er...
What about,
"I see things just the way they are.
The rest of the world needs bifocals"?
I love it. OK, reset. Makeup.
I want to move in closer.
You're a genius, Charles.
Audiences are going to devour
the whole spiritualist angle.
Yeah.
It's just a shame
Ruth isn't here to enjoy it.
Mr. Condomine?
Hedda Hopper, Los Angeles Times.
Hello.
How does it feel to be
the talk of the town?
That's awfully sweet of you,
but I'm not sure anybody's interested
in the lowly writer.
I have a hunch that
my 35 million readers will be enthralled
- by the story of a serial plagiarist.
- Plagiarist?
I know you revel
in gossip and scandal, Miss Hopper,
but that's a completely outrageous
and unfounded accusation.
There is nothing unfounded about
the writ Señor Morales is serving.
Would you care to comment on the fact
that your 15
Detective Frank Flowers whodunnits
are based word for word on the Inspector
Francisco Flores crime novels
which are bestsellers
across all of Mexico?
Say "Cheese," Mr. Condomine.
You!
Don't look so shocked, Charles.
You and I both know there's
no such thing as an original story.
- How could you?
- Can't you just be quiet?
- I'm trying to make a picture here!
- You scheming little witch.
So much for the famous British charm.
♪ I'll be loving you always
- ♪ With a love that's true, always
- No. Stop it. No!
- Stop it! No!
- Your first novel?
- Greta Garbo speaking my words.
- Stop it!
You and I both know there's
no such thing as an original story.
Promise you can't touch her.
I'm a woman. We're used
to not getting the credit we deserve.
The only person
that you love is yourself.
Ooh!
What the hell do you think you're doing?
- You could've killed me!
- I just did.
Nobody will ever forget you, Charles.
They'll remember what a fraud you were.
Always.
Farewell, Mr. Peasebody!
- You can't just leave me here.
- Whoo!
Read all about it! Read all about it!
Murdered British crime writer
revealed to be serial plagiarist!
Poor Charles. How dreadful.
It's like a plot from one of his novels.
Or perhaps from someone else's.
Is anybody there?
One knock for yes, two knocks for no.
Yes, I'm here.
Whatever happened to leaving someone
to rest in peace?
Mr. Condomine,
I simply wanted to apologize
for any part I may have played
in your untimely demise.
You weren't behind the wheel,
Madame Arcati.
No, but I fear
I may have put fuel in the tank.
Well, c'est la vie.
I also wanted
to express my gratitude.
Without you, I would still be searching.
Well, at least one of us
is enjoying a happy ending.
May I be so bold as to ask
what it's like on the other side?
- Charles?
Complicated!
Subtitles: IYUNO Media Group